welcome to a Stanford medicine 25 video
on vesicular and bronchial breath sounds
my name is dr. Andrew alder from
Edinburgh Scotland and I'm a visiting
associate professor here at Stanford
University in California this graphic
illustrates the key differences that can
be identified on auscultation that can
help me differentiate between the
circular and bronchial breathing or
breath sounds vesicular breathing
inspiration is characteristically longer
than expiration is louder than
expiration and there is no discernible
gap between inspiration and expiration
listen to the basis of your patients
lungs to hear vesicular breath sounds
most prominently bronchial breathing
which can be mimicked by listening over
the trachea differ from vesicular in
that they are louder and have a
different quality in addition in
inspiration they are of similar loudness
as an expiration or similar duration as
an expiration and there is a discernible
gap between inspiration and expiration
listening over the trachea is a useful
way to enable students to distinguish
between normal vesicular breathing or
bronchial breathing that they may
encounter in the lung
bronchiole also known as tubular breath
sounds should not be heard over normal
lung parenchyma
however bronchial breath sounds may
replace the normal vesicular breath
sounds in certain pathological findings
which include the consolidated lung of
pneumonia atelectasis and with a
pulmonary mass it should be noted that
the Airways are involved then no lung
sounds may be heard
this has been a Stanford medicine 25
video on vesicular and bronchial breath
sounds thanks for watching
the preceding program is copyrighted by
the Board of Trustees of the Leland
Stanford junior University please visit
us at med.stanford.edu